README.md, before:

[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12%2B-blue?logo=python)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3120/)
[![Framework: Textual](https://img.shields.io/badge/framework-Textual-5967FF?logo=python)](https://www.textualize.io/)
[![Pylint](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/linting.yml?branch=main&label=pylint&logo=pylint)](https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/actions/workflows/linting.yml)
[![Black](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/linting.yml?branch=main&label=black&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/actions/workflows/linting.yml)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/linting.yml?branch=main&label=ruff&logo=ruff)](https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/actions/workflows/linting.yml)

Graphical user interface in the terminal for [chezmoi](https://github.com/twpayne/chezmoi), see the [chezmoi docs](https://www.chezmoi.io/).

The rich visualization is made possible thanks to [textual](https://github.com/Textualize/textual), see the [textual docs](https://textual.textualize.io/).

Commands are issued using [Python](https://www.python.org/) its [Subprocess management](https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html).


## Use Case

- Can be safely tested as no write operations are enabled by default.
- To enable operations, press `D`, `d` or click the `Toggle --dry-run` text in the footer.
This will enable commands changing your config files or the chezmoi state.
- Run the app with your own user. Runnig the app with `sudo` or elevated permissions is **not needed**. Chezmoi [explicitly](https://www.chezmoi.io/user-guide/frequently-asked-questions/design/#can-i-use-chezmoi-to-manage-files-outside-my-home-directory) discourages operating outside of your home directory.
- The current implementation has only been used or tested with `autocommit` enabled, feedback is welcome on the issues page.

## Start

> Don't run the python command in a `chezmoi cd` invoked shell, unless you want to test.

On the command line, clone the repository at the latest tagged version:

`git clone --branch latest https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse.git`

> Note: You'll see a "detached HEAD" warning message - this is normal when checking out a tagged commit.

Change directory into the `src` directory of the cloned repository.

`cd chezmoi-mousse` and `cd src`

The easiest way is to run the app with `uv`, [install uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) on your platform. Then in the chezmoi-mousse src directory, run:

`uv run --no-dev --python 3.13 --with textual -m chezmoi_mousse`

If Python 3.13 with the latest `textual` version is available, and the module is in your PYTHONPATH, you can run:

`python -m chezmoi_mousse`

### App screenshot example

![App screenshot](src/screenshots/app_sample_screenshot.png)

### App log example

![App screenshot](src/screenshots/app_log_example.png)

### Operate result example

![App screenshot](src/screenshots/operate_resut_example.png)

### Platform packaging
- [x] Windows
  - [ ] app store
  - [ ] signed executable
  - [x] unpackaged
- [x] Apple
  - [ ] app store
  - [ ] signed executable
  - [x] unpackaged
- [x] Linux
  - [ ] [AppImage](https://appimage.org/)
  - [ ] briefcase
  - [ ] [flatpak](https://flatpak.org/)
  - [ ] public key list signed executable
  - [ ] [snap](https://snapcraft.io/)
  - [x] unpackaged

## Available Chezmoi commands

> Note: the lists for `Write Operations` and `Read Operations` below are a limited subset of availabble chezmoi commands, run `chezmoi help` in your terminal to see all commands.  Commands below without a checkmark are being implemented, missing commands could be out of scope or take a while.

### Write Operations

> Note: see `Implemented configuration options` below, not all flags are implemented, however usage with default flag values should run without errors. If you find an issue, please share it on the Issues tab.

- [x] `chezmoi add` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi add` file
- [ ] `chezmoi archive`
- [x] `chezmoi apply` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi apply` file
- [x] `chezmoi destroy` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi destroy` file
- [ ] `chezmoi edit`
- [x] `chezmoi forget` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi forget` file
- [ ] `chezmoi generate`
- [ ] `chezmoi import`
- [x] `chezmoi init` new repository
- [ ] `chezmoi init` clone repository
- [ ] `chezmoi purge`
- [x] `chezmoi re-add` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi re-add` file

### Read Operations

- [x] `chezmoi cat`
- [x] `chezmoi cat-config`
- [x] `chezmoi dump-config`
- [x] `chezmoi data`
- [x] `chezmoi diff`
- [x] `chezmoi doctor`
- [x] `chezmoi git log`
- [x] `chezmoi ignored`
- [x] `chezmoi managed`
- [x] `chezmoi source-dir`
- [x] `chezmoi status`
- [x] `chezmoi unmanaged`
- [ ] `chezmoi verify`

### Implemented configuration options

**Legend:**

- :green_circle: Follow user configuration or chezmoi defaults
- :green_square: Providing flags for the `chezmoi` command, managed by this app.
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: Not in scope
- :bulb: Follows user config with warning
- :black_circle: Under development, help wanted or to be documented

Top level

- :green_circle: cacheDir
- :green_square: color (`--no-color`, app manages color)
- :green_circle: data
- :green_circle: destDir
- :black_circle: encryption
- :black_circle: env
- :green_circle: format
- :green_square: interactive (`--interactive=false`, app provides safeguards)
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: mode (`--mode=file`, only file mode is supported)
- :green_square: pager (`--no-pager`, app limits output)
- :green_square: pagerArgs
- :black_circle: persistentState
- :green_square: progress (`--progress=false`, app will implement spinner)
- :black_circle: scriptEnv
- :black_circle: scriptTempDir
- :green_circle: sourceDir
- :green_circle: tempDir
- :green_circle: umask
- :black_circle: useBuiltinAge
- :green_square: useBuiltinGit (`--use-builtin-git=true`)
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: verbose
- :black_circle: workingTree

add
- :black_circle: add.encrypt
- :black_circle: add.secrets
- :black_circle: add.templateSymlinks

age
- :black_circle: age.args
- :black_circle: age.command
- :black_circle: age.identities
- :black_circle: age.identity
- :black_circle: age.passphrase
- :black_circle: age.recipient
- :black_circle: age.recipients
- :black_circle: age.recipientsFile
- :black_circle: age.recipientsFiles
- :black_circle: age.suffix
- :black_circle: age.symmetric

awsSecretsManager
- :black_circle: awsSecretsManager.profile
- :black_circle: awsSecretsManager.region

azureKeyVault
- :black_circle: azureKeyVault.defaultVault

bitwarden
- :black_circle: bitwarden.command
- :black_circle: bitwarden.unlock

bitwardenSecrets
- :black_circle: bitwardenSecrets.command

cd
- :black_circle: cd.args
- :black_circle: cd.command

dashlane
- :black_circle: dashlane.args
- :black_circle: dashlane.command

diff
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: diff.args
- :green_square: diff.command (`chezmoi diff --use-builtin-diff`)
- :black_circle: diff.exclude
- :green_square: diff.pager (`chezmoi diff --no-pager`)
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: diff.pagerArgs
- :green_square: diff.reverse
- :black_circle: diff.scriptContents

doppler
- :black_circle: doppler.args
- :black_circle: doppler.command
- :black_circle: doppler.config
- :black_circle: doppler.project

edit
- :black_circle: edit.apply
- :black_circle: edit.args
- :black_circle: edit.command
- :black_circle: edit.hardlink
- :black_circle: edit.minDuration
- :black_circle: edit.watch

ejson
- :black_circle: ejson.key
- :black_circle: ejson.keyDir

git
- :black_circle: git.autoAdd
- :bulb: git.autoCommit
- :bulb: git.autoPush
- :green_circle: git.command (`chezmoi git -- <git_command>` is used to run `git`)
- :green_circle: git.commitMessageTemplate
- :green_circle: git.commitMessageTemplateFile
- :black_circle: git.lfs

gitHub
- :black_circle: gitHub.refreshPeriod

gopass
- :black_circle: gopass.command
- :black_circle: gopass.mode

gpg
- :black_circle: gpg.args
- :black_circle: gpg.command
- :black_circle: gpg.recipient
- :black_circle: gpg.recipients
- :black_circle: gpg.suffix
- :black_circle: gpg.symmetric

hooks
- :black_circle: hooks.command.post.args
- :black_circle: hooks.command.post.command
- :black_circle: hooks.command.pre.args
- :black_circle: hooks.command.pre.command

interpreters
- :black_circle: interpreters.extension.args
- :black_circle: interpreters.extension.command

keepassxc
- :black_circle: keepassxc.args
- :black_circle: keepassxc.command
- :black_circle: keepassxc.database
- :black_circle: keepassxc.mode
- :black_circle: keepassxc.prompt

keeper
- :black_circle: keeper.args
- :black_circle: keeper.command

lastpass
- :black_circle: lastpass.command

merge
- :black_circle: merge.args
- :black_circle: merge.command

onepassword
- :black_circle: onepassword.cache
- :black_circle: onepassword.command
- :black_circle: onepassword.mode
- :black_circle: onepassword.prompt

pass
- :black_circle: pass.command

passhole
- :black_circle: passhole.args
- :black_circle: passhole.command
- :black_circle: passhole.prompt

pinentry
- :black_circle: pinentry.args
- :black_circle: pinentry.command
- :black_circle: pinentry.options

rbw
- :black_circle: rbw.command

secret
- :black_circle: secret.args
- :black_circle: secret.command

status
- :green_square: status.pathStyle
- :green_square: status.exclude

template
- :black_circle: template.options

textconv
- :black_circle: textconv

update
- :black_circle: update.apply
- :black_circle: update.args
- :black_circle: update.command
- :black_circle: update.recurseSubmodules

vault
- :black_circle: vault.command

verify
- :black_circle: verify.exclude

warnings
- :black_circle: warnings

### Chezmoi not found screenshot

If the `chezmoi` command is not available, a screen will be shown with the value for $PATH and a link to [chezmoi.io/install](chezmoi.io/install), along with parsed install commands from the [chezmoi repository]((https://github.com/twpayne/chezmoi/blob/master/assets/chezmoi.io/docs/install.md.tmpl)) which uses the excellent [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) framework.

![App screenshot](src/screenshots/command_not_found.png)

Commit message:

Update README with app testing instructions
Added warning about using the app from the latest tagged stable branch.

README.md, after:

[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12%2B-blue?logo=python)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3120/)
[![Framework: Textual](https://img.shields.io/badge/framework-Textual-5967FF?logo=python)](https://www.textualize.io/)
[![Pylint](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/linting.yml?branch=main&label=pylint&logo=pylint)](https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/actions/workflows/linting.yml)
[![Black](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/linting.yml?branch=main&label=black&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/actions/workflows/linting.yml)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/linting.yml?branch=main&label=ruff&logo=ruff)](https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse/actions/workflows/linting.yml)

> [!WARNING]
> To test the app, clone from the latest tagged stable branch `git clone --branch latest https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse.git`. The current HEAD will be updated soon.

Graphical user interface in the terminal for [chezmoi](https://github.com/twpayne/chezmoi), see the [chezmoi docs](https://www.chezmoi.io/).

The rich visualization is made possible thanks to [textual](https://github.com/Textualize/textual), see the [textual docs](https://textual.textualize.io/).

Commands are issued using [Python](https://www.python.org/) its [Subprocess management](https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html).


## Use Case

- Can be safely tested as no write operations are enabled by default.
- To enable operations, press `D`, `d` or click the `Toggle --dry-run` text in the footer.
This will enable commands changing your config files or the chezmoi state.
- Run the app with your own user. Runnig the app with `sudo` or elevated permissions is **not needed**. Chezmoi [explicitly](https://www.chezmoi.io/user-guide/frequently-asked-questions/design/#can-i-use-chezmoi-to-manage-files-outside-my-home-directory) discourages operating outside of your home directory.
- The current implementation has only been used or tested with `autocommit` enabled, feedback is welcome on the issues page.

## Start

> Don't run the python command in a `chezmoi cd` invoked shell, unless you want to test.

On the command line, clone the repository at the latest tagged version:

`git clone --branch latest https://github.com/matmaer/chezmoi-mousse.git`

> Note: You'll see a "detached HEAD" warning message - this is normal when checking out a tagged commit.

Change directory into the `src` directory of the cloned repository.

`cd chezmoi-mousse` and `cd src`

The easiest way is to run the app with `uv`, [install uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) on your platform. Then in the chezmoi-mousse src directory, run:

`uv run --no-dev --python 3.13 --with textual -m chezmoi_mousse`

If Python 3.13 with the latest `textual` version is available, and the module is in your PYTHONPATH, you can run:

`python -m chezmoi_mousse`

### App screenshot example

![App screenshot](src/screenshots/app_sample_screenshot.png)

### App log example

![App screenshot](src/screenshots/app_log_example.png)

### Operate result example

![App screenshot](src/screenshots/operate_resut_example.png)

### Platform packaging
- [x] Windows
  - [ ] app store
  - [ ] signed executable
  - [x] unpackaged
- [x] Apple
  - [ ] app store
  - [ ] signed executable
  - [x] unpackaged
- [x] Linux
  - [ ] [AppImage](https://appimage.org/)
  - [ ] briefcase
  - [ ] [flatpak](https://flatpak.org/)
  - [ ] public key list signed executable
  - [ ] [snap](https://snapcraft.io/)
  - [x] unpackaged

## Available Chezmoi commands

> Note: the lists for `Write Operations` and `Read Operations` below are a limited subset of availabble chezmoi commands, run `chezmoi help` in your terminal to see all commands.  Commands below without a checkmark are being implemented, missing commands could be out of scope or take a while.

### Write Operations

> Note: see `Implemented configuration options` below, not all flags are implemented, however usage with default flag values should run without errors. If you find an issue, please share it on the Issues tab.

- [x] `chezmoi add` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi add` file
- [ ] `chezmoi archive`
- [x] `chezmoi apply` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi apply` file
- [x] `chezmoi destroy` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi destroy` file
- [ ] `chezmoi edit`
- [x] `chezmoi forget` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi forget` file
- [ ] `chezmoi generate`
- [ ] `chezmoi import`
- [x] `chezmoi init` new repository
- [ ] `chezmoi init` clone repository
- [ ] `chezmoi purge`
- [x] `chezmoi re-add` directory (non-recursive)
- [x] `chezmoi re-add` file

### Read Operations

- [x] `chezmoi cat`
- [x] `chezmoi cat-config`
- [x] `chezmoi dump-config`
- [x] `chezmoi data`
- [x] `chezmoi diff`
- [x] `chezmoi doctor`
- [x] `chezmoi git log`
- [x] `chezmoi ignored`
- [x] `chezmoi managed`
- [x] `chezmoi source-dir`
- [x] `chezmoi status`
- [x] `chezmoi unmanaged`
- [ ] `chezmoi verify`

### Implemented configuration options

**Legend:**

- :green_circle: Follow user configuration or chezmoi defaults
- :green_square: Providing flags for the `chezmoi` command, managed by this app.
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: Not in scope
- :bulb: Follows user config with warning
- :black_circle: Under development, help wanted or to be documented

Top level

- :green_circle: cacheDir
- :green_square: color (`--no-color`, app manages color)
- :green_circle: data
- :green_circle: destDir
- :black_circle: encryption
- :black_circle: env
- :green_circle: format
- :green_square: interactive (`--interactive=false`, app provides safeguards)
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: mode (`--mode=file`, only file mode is supported)
- :green_square: pager (`--no-pager`, app limits output)
- :green_square: pagerArgs
- :black_circle: persistentState
- :green_square: progress (`--progress=false`, app will implement spinner)
- :black_circle: scriptEnv
- :black_circle: scriptTempDir
- :green_circle: sourceDir
- :green_circle: tempDir
- :green_circle: umask
- :black_circle: useBuiltinAge
- :green_square: useBuiltinGit (`--use-builtin-git=true`)
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: verbose
- :black_circle: workingTree

add
- :black_circle: add.encrypt
- :black_circle: add.secrets
- :black_circle: add.templateSymlinks

age
- :black_circle: age.args
- :black_circle: age.command
- :black_circle: age.identities
- :black_circle: age.identity
- :black_circle: age.passphrase
- :black_circle: age.recipient
- :black_circle: age.recipients
- :black_circle: age.recipientsFile
- :black_circle: age.recipientsFiles
- :black_circle: age.suffix
- :black_circle: age.symmetric

awsSecretsManager
- :black_circle: awsSecretsManager.profile
- :black_circle: awsSecretsManager.region

azureKeyVault
- :black_circle: azureKeyVault.defaultVault

bitwarden
- :black_circle: bitwarden.command
- :black_circle: bitwarden.unlock

bitwardenSecrets
- :black_circle: bitwardenSecrets.command

cd
- :black_circle: cd.args
- :black_circle: cd.command

dashlane
- :black_circle: dashlane.args
- :black_circle: dashlane.command

diff
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: diff.args
- :green_square: diff.command (`chezmoi diff --use-builtin-diff`)
- :black_circle: diff.exclude
- :green_square: diff.pager (`chezmoi diff --no-pager`)
- :negative_squared_cross_mark: diff.pagerArgs
- :green_square: diff.reverse
- :black_circle: diff.scriptContents

doppler
- :black_circle: doppler.args
- :black_circle: doppler.command
- :black_circle: doppler.config
- :black_circle: doppler.project

edit
- :black_circle: edit.apply
- :black_circle: edit.args
- :black_circle: edit.command
- :black_circle: edit.hardlink
- :black_circle: edit.minDuration
- :black_circle: edit.watch

ejson
- :black_circle: ejson.key
- :black_circle: ejson.keyDir

git
- :black_circle: git.autoAdd
- :bulb: git.autoCommit
- :bulb: git.autoPush
- :green_circle: git.command (`chezmoi git -- <git_command>` is used to run `git`)
- :green_circle: git.commitMessageTemplate
- :green_circle: git.commitMessageTemplateFile
- :black_circle: git.lfs

gitHub
- :black_circle: gitHub.refreshPeriod

gopass
- :black_circle: gopass.command
- :black_circle: gopass.mode

gpg
- :black_circle: gpg.args
- :black_circle: gpg.command
- :black_circle: gpg.recipient
- :black_circle: gpg.recipients
- :black_circle: gpg.suffix
- :black_circle: gpg.symmetric

hooks
- :black_circle: hooks.command.post.args
- :black_circle: hooks.command.post.command
- :black_circle: hooks.command.pre.args
- :black_circle: hooks.command.pre.command

interpreters
- :black_circle: interpreters.extension.args
- :black_circle: interpreters.extension.command

keepassxc
- :black_circle: keepassxc.args
- :black_circle: keepassxc.command
- :black_circle: keepassxc.database
- :black_circle: keepassxc.mode
- :black_circle: keepassxc.prompt

keeper
- :black_circle: keeper.args
- :black_circle: keeper.command

lastpass
- :black_circle: lastpass.command

merge
- :black_circle: merge.args
- :black_circle: merge.command

onepassword
- :black_circle: onepassword.cache
- :black_circle: onepassword.command
- :black_circle: onepassword.mode
- :black_circle: onepassword.prompt

pass
- :black_circle: pass.command

passhole
- :black_circle: passhole.args
- :black_circle: passhole.command
- :black_circle: passhole.prompt

pinentry
- :black_circle: pinentry.args
- :black_circle: pinentry.command
- :black_circle: pinentry.options

rbw
- :black_circle: rbw.command

secret
- :black_circle: secret.args
- :black_circle: secret.command

status
- :green_square: status.pathStyle
- :green_square: status.exclude

template
- :black_circle: template.options

textconv
- :black_circle: textconv

update
- :black_circle: update.apply
- :black_circle: update.args
- :black_circle: update.command
- :black_circle: update.recurseSubmodules

vault
- :black_circle: vault.command

verify
- :black_circle: verify.exclude

warnings
- :black_circle: warnings

### Chezmoi not found screenshot

If the `chezmoi` command is not available, a screen will be shown with the value for $PATH and a link to [chezmoi.io/install](chezmoi.io/install), along with parsed install commands from the [chezmoi repository]((https://github.com/twpayne/chezmoi/blob/master/assets/chezmoi.io/docs/install.md.tmpl)) which uses the excellent [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) framework.

![App screenshot](src/screenshots/command_not_found.png)
